week 8
demo 3 presentation:

	Zhao shows presentation, client works fine
	TA asks why we use floats.
	TA asks for pannekoeken (in the app)
	
	*Program crashes at adding new activity*
	500 error
	TA goes away
	500 error is issued due to duplicate primary key: server auto-increments the primary id, that somehow got messed up due to manually inserted tuples?
	
	TA is back
	
	demo 3 continues
	ta asks about icon
	ta asks to add unit to activity history sidebar
	ta asks to sort achievements on achieval 
	ta likes the amount of visual feedback
	let your mom use the app to get more feedback
	to focus on
		more process
		bonus features
			calculate saved $
			plant a tree
	
	don't use andy as pfp
	amount of earned / lost points:
		hard to say, estimate ~8, but no promises
		but keep this up and you will pass.	
		
	suggestions for presentation:
		Present app live, but keep a video backup
		q&a will be about your design choices.
		biggest coders should be not presenters.
		avoid 2 people talking during q&a.
	
	
	draft report deadline: thursday.
	mock presentation: monday.
	ethics chapter: enought to write.
	make sure master is clean.
	checkstyle does not apply to mobile app.
	app being in dart is not an issue.
	this may be even a extra bonus point.
	
	we are somewhat ahead compared to other groups.
	
- client: set labels this week
- client: rearrange history insert labels.
- friend system works.
	(horizontal scroll broken)
- when fetching achievements, somewhere case sensitivity is lost.
- 2 db tables: "achievements" and "user_achievements"
- logo to main screen is broken
- achievements horizontal scroll suddenly fixed?
- user screen done
- program is done, focus on exams
- avoid and fix bugs
- ask ta if pfp is bonus
- client layout: like reverse twitter?
- logo is squished
- set up Andy's account for demo
- todo: mail link.
- keep the polar bear or not? Need to poll
- TODO: malware.gogreen
- add top 10 worst people leaderboard


sprint reviews:
zhao: friend system
nik: up branch coverage, server side pfp part
alin: user profile photo, client tests, achievements
rahul: no work on main project, android app using Flutter SDK, demo done, auth done using Google Firebase (most 3rd party auth), uses firebase to host db & server 2-in-1. 
	Done so far: veggie meal, account screen, change user details. Does not know how to do friend system. TA asks to just have it done before week 10.
atanas: friend screen, adjusted multiple times due to changing demands.
jan: room temp change impl, same for transport. Todo: solar panel impl.
gio: const db changes, adjusting triggers.


tasks:
	achievements
	fix minor bugs
	finish up missing impl (pfp, solar panels)
	write the draft
	make the demo vid.
	pp/keynote presentation
	adjust server & client to db (new collumn)
	